377130799
FIH
3743180
370224
505804
06/29/1998 12:00:00 AM
COLON CARCINOMA .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
KOTE , RORA
UNIT NUMBER :
870-94-69
ADMISSION DATE :
06/29/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
07/09/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Colon carcinoma .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
Hypertension , hyperthyroidism , detrusor hypertrophy .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Subtotal colectomy .
ASSOCIATED PROCEDURES :
Colonoscopy .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a seventy eight-year-old female who was noted to have bright red blood per rectum and melena during her hospitalization in TH in February for a mastectomy for a left breast cancer .
She underwent a colonoscopy which revealed three polyps which were removed and one cecal polyp white mass , which was biopsied and proven to be adenocarcinoma .
The patient was referred to Sonpathcermu Jords Hospital for colonoscopy on June 26 which revealed a large fungating mass in the cecum which was biopsied and two to three centimeter ulcerated mass near the splenic flexure which was biopsied and found to be non-specific round cell infiltrate and foci of lymphoid infiltrates in the lamina propria with eosinophils .
The patient was transferred to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital from Ocfasciences Valley Hospital Medical Center for further evaluation and treatment including possible surgical excision of her tumor .
The patient had abdominal CT June 18 , 1998 showing no liver metastases , hypoplastic changes in her renal glands and focal lymphadenopathy in the left peri-aortic region .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Significant for hypertension , history of syncopal episodes , hypothyroidism and detrusor hypertrophy .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Mastectomy and appendectomy .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Calan 240 milligrams po q day .
Synthroid 100 micrograms po q day .
Zantac 150 milligrams po q day .
Ditropan 5 milligrams PO b.i.d.
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
The patient was admitted and prepared for colonoscopy .
Colonoscopy was done on July 1 which showed fungating mass in the ascending colon and cecum , which was not biopsied and fungating mass in the transverse colon which was also not biopsied which appeared malignant .
No obvious abnormality in the vicinity of the splenic flexure and three sigmoid polyps which were removed with the hot snare .
The patient was then evaluated and prepared for surgery .
The patient was taken to the operating room on July 3 , 1998 where a sub total colectomy was performed .
The patient tolerated the procedure well and did well postoperatively .
The patient was maintained nothing by mouth , IV fluids , nasogastric tube and IM Morphine shots for pain control .
The patient continued to do well postoperatively , was seen by physical therapy who was performed chest physical therapy and getting the patient out of bed and assistance with ambulation .
The patient was started on sips on postoperative day two , she had good bowel sounds .
The incision was clean , dry and intact and there were no drainage .
On postoperative day three , the patient &apos;s diet was slowly advanced and she was started on a clear liquid diet and she tolerated that well .
By postoperative day four , the patient was passing flatus and was ambulating with assistance and started on a diet as tolerated .
On postoperative day five , the patient had had several bowel movements , was tolerating PO pain medicines , was ambulating with assistance .
The patient had good return to bowel function and was discharged to rehabilitation in stable condition .
DOCTOR &apos;S DISCHARGE ORDERS :
The patient is to follow up with Dr. Berry .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Include the preoperative medications with the addition of Percocet 1 tablet po q 3 to 4 hours whenever necessary pain .
The patient should have physical therapy at the rehabilitation facility .
BESTI KOTEBREUN , M.D.
TR :
vq
DD :
07/08/1998
TD :
07/08/1998 8:45 A
cc :
EDITED 07/10/1998 HAS
[ report_end ]