818414680
PRGH
77238681
559027
6/4/1999 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
06/04/1999
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
06/20/1999
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
1. METASTATIC ANAL CARCINOMA .
2. PROBABLE POST-OBSTRUCTIVE PNEUMONIA .
3. HYPERCALCEMIA RESOLVED .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
( 1 ) Abdominopelvic CT with oral contrast on 6/4/99 , which showed changes status post abdominoperineal resection with left lower quadrant colostomy ;
( 2 ) Bilateral low attenuation inguinal masses ;
( 3 ) Left lower lobe lung nodules consistent with metastatic disease .
( 4 ) Low attenuation lesions in the liver possibly consistent with metastasis .
( 5 ) Chest CT on 6/15/99 , without contrast , which shows a large right hilar mass , with multiple nodular opacities in bilateral lungs .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Service is a 58 year old gentleman with a history of anal squamous cell carcinoma , who is admitted with a history of fevers .
The patient was initially diagnosed in 03/98 with a 6 cm rectal mass .
Biopsy , at that time , showed squamous cell carcinoma .
A staging CT , at that time , showed no evidence of inguinal lymph node .
The patient was treated with 5-FU , mitomycin , as well as XRT with complete remission .
However , in 09/98 , the patient was noted to have recurrent anal mass with inguinal lymphadenopathy .
An inguinal biopsy , at that time , showed a squamous cell carcinoma .
The patient was treated with cisplatin and taxol x4 cycles , which was completed in 3/4/99 .
The patient was noted to have partial response to this .
On 3/26/99 , the patient underwent an abdominoperineal resection and a reconstruction rectus flap .
His hospital course was complicated by postoperative fevers , which were treated with Keflex .
However , since that time , the patient has had persistent multiple perineal non-wound healing with drainage .
The patient initially presented on 6/4/99 , with a three week history of fevers off of antibiotics .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Metastatic anal squamous cell carcinoma as above ; status post abdominoperineal resection ; status post pilonidal cyst removal .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
MEDICATIONS :
Tylenol p.r.n.; Darvocet p.r.n.
FAMILY HISTORY :
Positive for father with lung carcinoma .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient smoked 1-2 packs per day x13 years .
He quit in 1988 .
He denies alcohol use .
The patient is married .
He lives in Clark Ker with his wife .
They have one daughter and two grandchildren .
The patient is formerly a self-employed gift shop owner .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
VITAL SIGNS :
Temp 97.3 , pulse 84 , BP 130/70 , respiratory rate 16 , SPO2 93% on room air .
HEART :
Regular rate , no murmur , rubs , or gallops .
LUNGS :
Decreased breath sounds on the right , clear on the left with crackles at the apices .
ABDOMEN :
Non-tender , positive bowel sounds , with several well healed scars .
A colostomy bag was intact .
Perineal exam was significant for surgical wounds x3 , with granulation tissue .
No obvious purulent material or abscesses were noted .
NEURO :
The patient was alert and oriented x3 .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was initially admitted to the Surgery Service with a history of fevers .
During his hospital course on the surgery service , he remained febrile .
He was initially treated with Ancef .
An Infectious Disease consult was obtained and antibiotics were discontinued .
The patient remained febrile off of antibiotics and was noted to have an elevated white blood cell count .
A chest x-ray obtained on 6/14/99 revealed a right upper lobe infiltrate and cefotaxime and Flagyl were started for a probable post-obstructive pneumonia .
On 6/15/99 , a repeat chest CT was obtained , which showed a very large right hilar mass with multiple pulmonary nodules .
CT , Surgery , and Pulmonary consults were obtained regarding further diagnostic evaluations .
In addition , the patient was also noted to be hypercalcemic and was treated with IV fluids and pamidronate .
The patient was subsequently transferred from the Surgery Service to the Oncology-D Service for further management on 6/16/99 .
Briefly , his hospital course by systems on the Oncology-D Service :
( 1 ) INFECTIOUS DISEASE - The patient was continued on cefotaxime and Flagyl for a probable post-obstructive pneumonia .
Per consult with the pulmonologist , it was not felt that the patient would likely benefit from any sort of procedure or stenting .
The decision was made to continue the patient on chronic antibiotic therapy .
The patient was discharged on IV ceftriaxone , as well as oral Flagyl with plan to continue IV ceftriaxone for one week and then switch to p.o. Augmentin .
In addition , the patient &apos;s surgical wounds were cultured to R / O any evidence of a wound infection .
Wound cultures from his buttock region revealed 1+ Acinetobacter , as well as 2+ diphtheroids with rare enterococci .
A perirectal culture showed normal fecal flora , and a second wound culture also revealed diphtheroids and coagulase negative Staphylococcus .
These were thought to be contaminants , and the patient was not treated for wound infection .
( 2 ) PULMONARY - On 6/17/99 , the patient was noted to have markedly increased O2 requirements , with O2 sats noted in the low 80% on room air .
This increased to 90-93% on four liters nasal cannula .
The patient was noted to have increased wheezes on pulmonary exam .
A STAT portable chest x-ray revealed markedly increased opacification in the right hemithorax , with increased markings on the left , which was consistent with pulmonary edema .
An EKG was obtained , at that time , which showed sinus tachycardia at a rate of 125 , with normal axis and no acute ST changes noted .
The patient was given IV Lasix with improvement in his O2 saturations .
It was also thought , at that time , given the patient &apos;s immobility that a pulmonary embolus was also a likely cause of the patient &apos;s hypoxia .
However , at that time , the decision had been made to make the patient DNR / DNI , and it was not felt that an aggressive workup for pulmonary embolus was indicated at that time .
Throughout the remainder of the patient &apos;s hospitalization , his respiratory status was stable .
( 3 ) METASTATIC ANAL CARCINOMA / CODE STATUS - Given the advanced nature of the patient &apos;s disease and his failure to respond to chemotherapeutic measures , upon discussion with the patient , the patient &apos;s wife , and the treatment team , the decision was made to pursue comfort measures , and the patient was made DNR / DNI .
It was felt that aggressive workup was not indicated at that time .
The goal of the patient &apos;s treatment was for maximum comfort and pain control .
( 4 ) HYPERCALCEMIA - The patient had been noted to be hypercalcemic with a calcium of 13.3 .
He was treated with aggressive IV fluid hydration , as well as pamidronate with normalization of his calcium level .
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS :
The patient was discharged on one week of IV ceftriaxone with p.o. Flagyl , with a plan to change IV ceftriaxone to p.o.
Augmentin after one week .
In addition , the patient was to receive dressing changes via SGGH .
The plan was for the patient to remain at home until he and his wife felt that hospice care would be necessary , at which time , they would transition to an inpatient hospice unit .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
Vitamin C 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Motrin 600 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.; Indocin 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ( for tumor fever ) ; Flagyl 500 mg p.o. q.8h.; Darvocet-N 100 mg 1 p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n. pain ; Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Zinc 220 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Ensure 1 can q.i.d.; ceftriaxone 100 mg q.d. x7 days ; Augmentin 250/125 mg p.o. t.i.d. to start after ceftriaxone D / C &apos;d ; albuterol inhaler 2 puffs q.4-6h. p.r.n. wheezing .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Poor prognosis .
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION :
The patient was discharged to home on 6/20/99 with SGGH care .
Dictated By :
CHPO PULSE , M.D. IX97
Attending :
TAANGE Q. PULSE , M.D. VP96 WR363/6981
Batch :
84089
Index No. RDOXYY8GT0
D :
06/25/99
T :
06/25/99
CC :
1. TAANGE Q. PULSE , M.D. KE9
[ report_end ]